 			     EE 109 - Spring 2026
                          Lab 2 - Scopes and Signals

Edit the document below to fill your answers from the exercises done in lab.
Be sure to include the proper units, such as "1 kHz", or "200 msec"

Note: Don't use special characters like Greek "mu" or "Omega" symbols in your
answers.  These don't display correctly on Vocareum and can make it hard to
grade the answers.  For example, if you need to specify units of microseconds,
just type "microseconds" or "usecs".


1. (5 points) Fill out the following table for outputs A0 and A1. The duty
cycle of a signal is the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of the time the
signal is in the high state to the period of the signal.

    Bit  Time in 1 state   Time in 0 state    Period    Frequency    Duty cycle

    A0        2.4 ms           10 us          2.41 ms      415 Hz        0.996

    A1        10 us            40 us           50 us       20 kHz         0.2



2. (3 points) What is the range of the width of the A2 pulse that you observed?

    Narrowest:     334 us

    Widest:        2.48 ms


3. (2 points) What is the approximate time delay from the input to the output
of the NOT gate?

10.2 ns


4. (3 points) What are the input threshold voltages that caused the output to
change 1 to 0 and from 0 to 1?

0 to 1: 1.5 v
1 to 0: 0.5 v


                          ---- Review Questions ----

1. (3 points) Suppose you wanted to measure the frequency of a note played by
a piano and sensed from a microphone connected/viewed on an oscilloscope.
Answer the following True/False questions with a brief explanation.

     a. True/False: To measure the frequency, the vertical scale of the
     oscilloscope would be of more use than the horizontal scale.
     
     False. Frequency is determined from the period, which is measured along the horizontal axis.

     b. True/False: Since the note is played for a short time period, we
     should set the triggering to "Single" rather than "Run".

     True. Since the piano note is played briefly, single trigger can capture one stable waveform when the signal occurs.

     c. True/False: If the signal ranges between 0V and 2.5V, the trigger
     level should ideally be set around 1.25V.
 
     True. This provides a stable trigger and avoids false or missed triggers due to noise at the extremes.

2. (2 points) Each scope probe has a short black ground wire attached to it.
Why is it necessary to connect this to the circuit's ground point in order to
make a measurement?

The oscilloscope measures voltage relative to ground. Connecting the probe's ground wire creates a common reference point which complete the measurement path. 




3. (2 points) If you have used the Horizontal Position control to move the
trigger point horizontally so much that you can no longer see the trigger point
on the screen, what is the quick way to restore the trigger point back to the
middle of the screen?

Use the default function for the horizontal position control.


